+++
title = "PiCymru and partners to support Raspberry Pi Pioneers in Wales..."
postType = "blog"
date = "2017-02-01T08:30:00Z"
+++

Today, PiCymru, Bridgend College, University of Wales Trinity Saint David and Cwmaman Community Centre
are pleased to announce a series of events and other support for the Pioneer scheme operated by the Raspberry Pi Foundation (see https://www.raspberrypi.org/pioneers/)

<!--more-->

On 9th January 2017, the Raspberry Pi Foundation, the charity behind the Raspberry Pi, launched the Pioneers scheme, encouraging anyone in the UK between the ages of twelve and fifteen to get involved and design some technology to *"make us laugh"*. The Pioneers scheme fills the gap between Code Club aimed at nine to eleven year olds and GCSE Computing. Participants do not need any prior coding experience.

A key part of the initiative will be a meetup on Friday 17th February at Bridgend College campus, the University of Wales Trinity St David - Mount Pleasant campus and Cwmaman Community Centre to provide hands on support to students signed up to the Pioneers scheme. The meetup will provide coding & engineering support, the use of additional equipment and assistance in filming of videos for submission on March 22nd.

Douglas Gore, founder of PiCymru said "The Pioneers scheme allows students to apply their ingenuity and creativity through the use of technology to complete set challenges. While having fun the students will be learning the vital computing and engineering skills that we need to support the Welsh economy in the future. We really look forward to seeing the ideas they come up with.".

“There is a major international shortage of computing skills that is getting worse every year. The School of Applied Computing at UWTSD Swansea are committed to working with Schools and Colleges to inspire young people to enter careers in Computing. We are therefore proud to support the PiCymru initiative.” said Professor Ian Wells, Head of School of Applied Computing at University of Wales Trinity Saint David

### About PiCymru
PiCymru is a not-for-profit organisation, set up in 2010 based in Swansea setup to promote digital literacy and encouraging learning and development in Wales through the design and development of programmes of work, and provision of facilities around Wales. PiCymru is a volunteer-led, not for profit group and is in no way affiliated with the Raspberry Pi Foundation.

### About Bridgend College
Bridgend College is a Further Education (FE) College supporting over 6,000 learners and employing over 600 members of staff across its five campuses at Bridgend, Pencoed, Queens Road, Maesteg and Cardiff. Engage Training is the business focused and externally facing directorate of Bridgend College, based at Morien House on Bridgend Industrial Estate.

### About University of Wales: Trinity St David
The University of Wales Trinity Saint David was established in 2010 through the merger of the University of Wales Lampeter and Trinity University College, Carmarthen. On 1 August 2013 the Swansea Metropolitan University merged with the University. The University’s Royal Charter 1828 is the oldest in Wales, and it is third behind Oxford and Cambridge in Wales and England. HRH Prince of Wales is the Patron of the University. The UWTSD Group includes Coleg Sir Gâr and Coleg Ceredigion as part of a dual sector group structure comprising further education colleges and the university. The UWTSD Group has over 25,000 learners across 15 campuses in rural and city locations. Together we deliver clear, tangible benefits for learners, employers, industry and communities by offering a vocational approach from entry level to post-doctoral research. The Group will be further strengthened with the merger of University of Wales into UWTSD in due course.

### About Cwmaman Community Centre
Cwmaman Town Council represents a rural community based within the Amman Valley in Carmarthenshire. They are one of 6 town and community council's in Carmarthenshire that have a duty under the Well-being of Future Generations Act (Wales) 2015. As part of their work towards the act they are seeking to bring together new technologies and traditional skills and techniques to create a maker community; a community where creativity, innovation and knowledge are embraced my everyone. They have a particular focus on increasing access to, and awareness of, new technologies and the employment and economic opportunities they offer.